# spcis1051

Final project

TrashTalk is a mobile application based on React Native framework which is also another project, but we still faced many difficulties during this project. The first challenge was how to get distance between two users in one chat room. We did not have any experience on that, so we did a lot of research and asked another professor to help us, as it was a very complicated formula using Javascript. Another challenge was how to show the “is typing” message on the screen and update the distance between the two users when the user sends a new message. We understood how to add these functions but we were not clear how to call these functions. These functions should work with the cloud Firestone database, so we looked through our existing codes. We noticed that TextInput which is a foundational component and the props: OnChangeText and OnSubmitEditing will let callback function and pass the parameters, so we research this specific part knowledge and found another props: OnEndEditing to add an "is typing" indicator in the chat-room. From this experience, I (Ruiqi) realized that learning a new programming language not only depends on the teaching of the professor, but also on my own exploration. The searching experience is an effective learning progress. Also, It's important to keep trying to write code rather than just read others codes. The most valuable learning for me (Minu) was getting the distance accuracy on the app and learning a bit from the professor that helped. It definitely gave me something new to learn and improve on. I especially enjoyed testing the chat to see how fast the messages popped up on the other user’s screen, playing around with those features was definitely a fun experience on my end. The main thing we both learned and enjoyed from this project was creating the interactable platform that allows users to connect even if they are thousands of miles apart. 


Youtube link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p2GRrx2hTMw
Codes: I upload the codes in the master branch rather then the main branch
